How to remove telemetry settings from firefox.

 We'll change some preferences on Firefox's hidden secret advanced configuration page i.e. about:config page to disable telemetry and data collection.

1. Open Mozilla Firefox and type about:config in the addressbar and press Enter. It'll show you a warning message, click on "I accept the risk!" button.


2. Now type telemetry in Search filter box and look for following preferences in the result:

    browser.newtabpage.activity-stream.feeds.telemetry
    browser.newtabpage.activity-stream.telemetry
    browser.ping-centre.telemetry
    toolkit.telemetry.archive.enabled
    toolkit.telemetry.bhrPing.enabled
    toolkit.telemetry.enabled
    toolkit.telemetry.firstShutdownPing.enabled
    toolkit.telemetry.hybridContent.enabled
    toolkit.telemetry.newProfilePing.enabled
    toolkit.telemetry.reportingpolicy.firstRun
    toolkit.telemetry.server
    toolkit.telemetry.shutdownPingSender.enabled
    toolkit.telemetry.unified
    toolkit.telemetry.updatePing.enabled

Double-click on each above mentioned preference except "toolkit.telemetry.server" and change their values to false. Alternatively, you can right-click on 
the preference and select Toggle option.Now double-click on toolkit.telemetry.server preference and empty its value i.e. remove everything from the value text box.

3. Now type experiments in Search filter box and look for following preferences in the result:

    experiments.activeExperiment
    experiments.enabled
    experiments.supported
    network.allow-experiments

Double-click on each above mentioned preference and change their values to false. Alternatively, you can right-click on the preference and select Toggle option.




       Dns Encrpytion :
                      use doh: DNS-over-HTTPS (DoH) - Similar to DoT, but uses HTTPS instead, being indistinguishable from "normal" HTTPS traffic on port 443.
                                 mozilla : network settings : enable dns private : custom : paste url. 
                                 articles link : 
                                 https://github.com/curl/curl/wiki/DNS-over-HTTPS#publicly-available-servers





                     WebRTC IP Leak Test - Is your IP address leaking?
WebRTC is a new communication protocol that relies on JavaScript that can leak your actual IP address from behind your VPN.

While software like NoScript prevents this, it's probably a good idea to block this protocol directly as well, just to be safe.
 Note: This disables browser-based call functionality that is used for webapps like Discord, Hangouts, Jitsi, etc.

How to disable WebRTC in Firefox?

In short: Set "media.peerconnection.enabled" to "false" in "about:config".

Explained:

    Enter "about:config" in the firefox address bar and press enter.
    Press the button "I'll be careful, I promise!"
    Search for "media.peerconnection.enabled"
    Double click the entry, the column "Value" should now be "false"
    Done. Do the WebRTC leak test again.

If you want to make sure every single WebRTC-related setting is really disabled change these settings:

    media.peerconnection.turn.disable = true
    media.peerconnection.use_document_iceservers = false
    media.peerconnection.video.enabled = false
    media.peerconnection.identity.timeout = 1

Now you can be 100% sure WebRTC is disabled.






 Firefox: Privacy Related "about:config" Tweaks
This is a collection of privacy-related about:config tweaks. We'll show you how to enhance the privacy of your Firefox browser.
Preparation:

    Enter "about:config" in the firefox address bar and press enter.
    Press the button "Accept the Risk and Continue" [FF71+] or "I accept the risk".
    Follow the instructions below...

Getting started:

privacy.firstparty.isolate = true
    A result of the Tor Uplift effort, this preference isolates all browser identifier sources (e.g. cookies) to the first party domain, with the goal of preventing tracking across different domains. (Don't do this if you are using the Firefox Addon "Cookie AutoDelete" with Firefox v58 or below.)
privacy.resistFingerprinting = true
    A result of the Tor Uplift effort, this preference makes Firefox more resistant to browser fingerprinting.
privacy.trackingprotection.fingerprinting.enabled = true
    [FF67+] Blocks Fingerprinting
privacy.trackingprotection.cryptomining.enabled = true
    [FF67+] Blocks CryptoMining
privacy.trackingprotection.enabled = true
    This is Mozilla's new built-in tracking protection. One of it's benefits is blocking tracking (i.e. Google Analytics) on privileged pages where add-ons that usually do that are disabled.
browser.send_pings = false
    The attribute would be useful for letting websites track visitors' clicks.
browser.urlbar.speculativeConnect.enabled = false
    Disable preloading of autocomplete URLs. Firefox preloads URLs that autocomplete when a user types into the address bar, which is a concern if URLs are suggested that the user does not want to connect to. Source
dom.event.clipboardevents.enabled = false
    Disable that websites can get notifications if you copy, paste, or cut something from a web page, and it lets them know which part of the page had been selected.
media.eme.enabled = false

    Disables playback of DRM-controlled HTML5 content, which, if enabled, automatically downloads the Widevine Content Decryption Module provided by Google Inc. Details

    DRM-controlled content that requires the Adobe Flash or Microsoft Silverlight NPAPI plugins will still play, if installed and enabled in Firefox.
media.gmp-widevinecdm.enabled = false
    Disables the Widevine Content Decryption Module provided by Google Inc., used for the playback of DRM-controlled HTML5 content. Details
media.navigator.enabled = false
    Websites can track the microphone and camera status of your device.
network.cookie.cookieBehavior = 1
    Disable cookies

        0 = Accept all cookies by default
        1 = Only accept from the originating site (block third-party cookies)
        2 = Block all cookies by default

network.http.referer.XOriginPolicy = 2
    Only send Referer header when the full hostnames match. (Note: if you notice significant breakage, you might try 1 combined with an XOriginTrimmingPolicy tweak below.) Source

        0 = Send Referer in all cases
        1 = Send Referer to same eTLD sites
        2 = Send Referer only when the full hostnames match

network.http.referer.XOriginTrimmingPolicy = 2
    When sending Referer across origins, only send scheme, host, and port in the Referer header of cross-origin requests. Source

        0 = Send full url in Referer
        1 = Send url without query string in Referer
        2 = Only send scheme, host, and port in Referer

webgl.disabled = true
    WebGL is a potential security risk. Source
browser.sessionstore.privacy_level = 2
    This preference controls when to store extra information about a session: contents of forms, scrollbar positions, cookies, and POST data. Details

        0 = Store extra session data for any site. (Default starting with Firefox 4.)
        1 = Store extra session data for unencrypted (non-HTTPS) sites only. (Default before Firefox 4.)
        2 = Never store extra session data.

beacon.enabled = false
    Disables sending additional analytics to web servers. Details
browser.safebrowsing.downloads.remote.enabled = false
    Prevents Firefox from sending information about downloaded executable files to Google Safe Browsing to determine whether it should be blocked for safety reasons. Details
Disable Firefox prefetching pages it thinks you will visit next:
    Prefetching causes cookies from the prefetched site to be loaded and other potentially unwanted behavior. Details here and here.

        network.dns.disablePrefetch = true
        network.dns.disablePrefetchFromHTTPS = true
        network.predictor.enabled = false
        network.predictor.enable-prefetch = false
        network.prefetch-next = false

network.IDN_show_punycode = true
    Not rendering IDNs as their Punycode equivalent leaves you open to phishing attacks that can be very difficult to notice




